Blog post on AI-native hiring practices for Ops teams (#16884)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/ai-native-hiring.md

We aren't just letting anybody through the door. The person still needs to actually be an `[insert job title]`, they can't just be an AI junkie who fancies being an accounting manager.

## What does this look like in reality

From an Ops perspective, we have three examples:

### 1. Ops manager

A traditional excellent [ops manager](/founders/first-ops-hire) is a hero. They are everywhere. They are the glue. This person is successful because they care, are reliable, and can go really wide on tasks. They think of everything that needs to go on an onboarding checklist, tag the right people, and chase them up continually until it's done. However, things fall through the cracks and they get blocked whilst waiting for others. 

The AI-native ops manager spins up a Slack bot that pushes tasks to owners, nudges them when something's due, and escalates when it's overdue. They build an offer-letter generator for the talent team that hooks into employment contract generation across the 30+ countries PostHog hires in — fully automated, end to end.

Shoutout <TeamMember name="Tara Alcantarilla-Howard" photo /> and <TeamMember name="Carol Donnelly" photo />.

### 2. Talent partner

> A traditional talent partner is always on. They're at the coalface internally and externally, managing lots of people, having difficult conversations, and smiling through all of it. They work late doing calls to find the right person, chase feedback from hiring managers, and reply to rejected candidates at 11pm. They often burn out quickly. 

Reviewer: I made some edits, the only one I didn't make is changing "coalface" which I don't fully understand what it means and most readers won't either

Author: ahh good catch! Very British.

---

> title: We've gone full AI-native in our Ops team and here is why

Reviewer: I think the best bit of this article is being AI-native is more important than being experience, so should be part of the title and focus the intro a bit more on that. Some ideas:

```suggestion
title: Being AI-native matters more than being experience
```

- We’d rather hire AI-native than experienced
- The AI-native candidate wins
- Your next ops hire should be AI-native

Reviewer: @charlescook-ph will probably have opinions here

Author: I look forward to hearing from @charlescook-ph when he has recovered from his sickbay

date: 2026-05-19
author:
  - fraser-hopper
showTitle: true
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: >-
 
featuredImageType: full
category: Startups
tags:
  - Guides
  - Ops
  - AI
  - Culture
  - Hiring 
---

> In Q2 2026, we finally caved and admitted what we knew for a while. That AI-native candidate are the preferred candidate when it comes to hiring our Ops & Finance roles. Whilst we’d been very pro AI-native candidates for a long time in both our technical & non-technical roles, we finally hit the point where it’s no longer a toss up between seniority & slope, it was all-in on the AI-pilled hiring plan. 

Author: ```suggestion
In Q2 2026 we caved and said what we'd been thinking for a while: when it comes to hiring, ai-native beats experience.
Not "experienced person who uses ai." Not "senior hire with ai on the jd as a nice-to-have." ai-native, full stop. Years of experience are now the tiebreaker between two ai-native candidates, not the gate that decides who gets to the table.
Ops & Finance is where I feel it most, so that's the lens we'll use here.
```

> AI-native sounds lovely, and it also sounds like a buzzword, so this is meant to show you what we mean by AI-native and how I am implementing it into Ops & Finance. We’ll also cover the reality that it’s not perfect. 

Reviewer: I think we should focus more on the AI-native vs experience bit here. Just start forcefully with that and we can give a lot of the context (like ops and finance) later. 

Ops & Finance is the example we will use throughout, but the "AI-native vs experience" is the main bit.

## Why have you actually done this? 

Here’s the 411:

1. AI-native means a team member treat agents and LLMs as their default. This is where they cook. 
2. Every role we have in Ops & Finance now has to be using AI and automation in their daily workflows
3. Years of experience do still matter and often correlate to stronger candidates. 
4. Years of experience are now used as a tiebreaker between ai-native candidates rather than a moat
5. The person still needs to actually be an [insert job] they can’t just be an ai junkie who fancies being an accounting manager

> 6. This isn’t bullet-proof, there are still downsides

Reviewer: This isn't really a "why", it's more a "what"

Could we just roll some of the important points into the intro? We already include "Years of experience do still matter and often correlate to stronger candidates." and could add "Years of experience are now used as a tiebreaker between ai-native candidates rather than a moat" too it.

These two might be good to include (but the below section also covers them well)

1. AI-native means a team member treat agents and LLMs as their default. This is where they cook. 
2. Every role we have in Ops & Finance now has to be using AI and automation in their daily workflows

I think "The person still needs to actually be an [insert job] they can’t just be an ai junkie who fancies being an accounting manager" could go below. 

Also, we can probably just remove "this isn't bullet-proof" as we don't need to hedge without context.

> ## Is this actually any different to normal hiring? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Is hiring for AI-natives actually any different? 
```

> Standard hiring advice for Ops roles still reads like it comes from when pandemics were all the rage. Find people who know what they are doing. Except now, you have to put “comfortable working with AI” on your job descriptions, right. Why else did we all sign off those huge AI budgets, right? If you're good at your job and you use AI to be more productive, great — you're probably 20% faster than the colleague who doesn't.

Reviewer: Be careful of using too many cliches like this. 
```suggestion
Standard hiring advice for Ops roles is still in the pandemic era. Find people who know what they are doing. Except now, you have to put “comfortable working with AI” on your job descriptions, right? Why else did we all sign off those huge AI budgets, right? If you're good at your job and you use AI to be more productive, great — you're probably 20% faster than the colleague who doesn't.
```

Being AI-native isn’t just a layer on top of a job. It’s a totally different version of it. The AI-native accountant doesn’t do accounting + ai. They produce the same work but 5x faster and with way better controls in place. 

Hold up, wait a minute. Stop just saying AI and actually tell me what people are doing. 

## What does this look like in reality

Well from an Ops perspective I have three examples:

* Ops Manager
* Talent Sourcer 

> * Finance Manager - accounting

Reviewer: We can just put the numbers in the titles
```suggestion
From an Ops perspective, I have three examples:
```

> ### Ops manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Ops manager
```

A traditional excellent Ops manager is a hero. They are everywhere, they are the glue. Lots of people don’t know why they are great but they know they are important. This person is successful because they care and they are reliable and they can go really wide on tasks but most of it is manual, they think of everything that needs to go on an onboarding checklist, tags the right people and chases them up continually until it’s done. Everybody loves this person. However, things fall through the cracks and they get blocked whilst waiting for others. 

> The ai-native ops manager spins up a slack bot that pushes tasks to owners, nudges them when something's due, and escalates when it's overdue. They build an offer-letter generator for the talent team that hooks into employment contract generation across the 30+ countries posthog hires in — fully automated, end to end.

Reviewer: We can see how this looks, but maybe a list will be better (and copy that format across each role)

Shoutout <TeamMember name="Tara Alcantarilla-Howard" photo /> and <TeamMember name="Carol Donnelly" photo />.

> ### Talent partner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Talent partner
```

A traditional talent partner is always on. They're at the coalface internally and externally, managing lots of people, having difficult conversations, smiling through all of it. They work late doing calls to find the right person, chase feedback from hiring managers, and reply to rejected candidates at 11pm. They often burn out, quickly. 

The AI-native talent partner creates a feedback summary generator that takes all the feedback on why we won’t pass somebody, runs it through an agent that knows our tone of voice and delivers solid, friendly and accurate feedback to candidates. They build an Ashby MCP to pull all the qualitative feedback on our strongest performing hires and run analysis in Claude to show us the trends of people that do great at PostHog. They also run the same analysis on hires that have not worked out and how that matched the feedback from our hiring process.

Did you know that people who talk fast usually really succeed at PostHog. Talk fast, think fast. We found that out from an AI-native talent partner. 

Shoutout <TeamMember name="Rune Povlsen" photo />.

> ### Finance manager - accounting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Finance manager - accounting
```

After these first 3 stages we do our SuperDay. At this stage we want to see that the person can do the role in practice. Here we want to set a task for them to build something for us during the day. 

We recently hired for a payroll manager and we asked candidates to build a workflow to deliver a flux analysis on payroll runs. The great submissions built a proper workflow that allowed you to input the two excels of payroll data and get an output flagging the errors. This could be a python script, a web app just something that produced a repeatable process that a non-payroll expert can use. The weak submissions were screen recordings of someone asking chatgpt basic questions.

It’s important at this stage to get the details, you want to see the prompts, the skills files, info on the agents. The details here matter, you also want to make sure they can explain this to you via some kind of recording or live in a call. You want to see fluency of tools as well, we’re not testing on a specific stack. It is a strong signal if the person is using multiple different tools, rather than gating themselves on one, it shows they’ve pushed themselves to learn more. 

> ## Where is this all heading?

Reviewer: I don't think this is quite the right heading, maybe something like this? It might need a couple more sentences to fill out. 

May
```suggestion
## What a company of AI-native hires looks like
```

> The practical result: PostHog's hiring plan for the next 2-3 years is smaller than it would have been a year ago. Not because we're growing slower. Because each ai-native hire is cracked enough that we need fewer of them. What we don't yet know is what people do with the time. The optimistic version is the 3 hours a day you save get reinvested — into building, into learning the fundamentals, into finally writing your own python. the pessimistic version is Parkinson's law eats it and we all just have more meetings.

Reviewer: This is more the "why hire AI-native", do we have any stats on how much more productive they are? Are we  ahead of schedule on the roadmap or something?

Author: added a little bit of ops team composition size within the business
